Add Watchdog Insights page (#14673)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/watchdog/insights.md

---
title: Watchdog Insights
kind: documentation

> description: View anomalies and outliers in context with Watchdog Insights

Reviewer: We tend to use "in context" internally because we understand it as encompassing "that match user query" but it is worth making sure external users/readers have the clear info:

How about something like "View anomalies and outliers that match your search query with Watchdog Insights"?

further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-watchdog-insights-log-management/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Augmented troubleshooting with Watchdog Insights"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/watchdog-insights-apm/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Automatically detect error and latency patterns with Watchdog Insights for APM"
---

## Overview

Datadog Watchdog constantly runs in the background, scanning for anomalies in your organization's entire data set. As you navigate the Datadog UI, Watchdog Insights show you the information most relevant to your current context. Using your active product and your active query, Watchdog Insights displays a filtered and sorted list of anomalies.

> Investigating an incident requires trial and error. Drawing from their experience, engineers familiar with a particular area know where to first look for potential problems. Using Watchdog Insights allows all engineers, including less experienced ones, to pay attention to the most important data and accelerate their incident investigations.

Author: The goal of the public documentation is to inform and explain, but not to market or sell Datadog. In this paragraph, I tried to write about the value of Watchdog Insights in lowering the barrier of entry to being effective in investigations.

Samir, can you tell me how Watchdog Insights determines which items are higher priority? That could strengthen our case here about the value of Watchdog Insights without veering into marketing language.

Reviewer: Insights are prioritized, from left to right in the Insight's carousel, based on Watchdog evaluating combinations of several factors like: state (ongoing vs resolved), status level (eg for logs: warning vs error vs critical...), the anomaly's start time (latest before earliest), the nature of the anomaly (eg. faulty deployments vs outliers ...)

Each insight highlights one outlier or anomaly affecting a subset of users. Depending on the product area, Watchdog Insights displays different types of anomalies. Examples include, but are not limited to, the following:
- Error outliers
- Latency outliers
- Log anomalies
- Lock pressure

> - Deadlocked threads

Author: Samir, please change this list to your suggested examples.

Reviewer: Let's use the most descriptive title for Insights:
"
- Error and Latency Outliers in Logs, Traces and RUM Views
- Spike in error logs
- New error logs
- Deadlocked threads
- High % of unready kubernetes pods
"

The Watchdog Insights banner sits near the top of each page. Expand the banner for an overview. The highest priority insights appear on the left. 

Click **View all** to expand the panel.

To refine your current view to match a Watchdog Insight, hover over the top right corner of an insight summary card. Two icons appear. Click on the inverted triangle icon with the tooltip **Filter on Insight**. The page refreshes to show a list of entries corresponding to the insight.

For a detailed view of an insight, click on the individual card. The full side panel opens from the right.

{{< img src="watchdog/profiler_watchdog_insight.png" alt="A Watchdog Insights full side panel view, with the title 'Lock Pressure is high in service:product-recommendation'" >}}

To share an insight in one click, click the **Copy Link** button on the full side panel. Your clipboard populates with the query that produced the Insight.

> 

Reviewer: We are missing the "view all" button that opens the same horizontal list of Insights in a side panel with vertical scrolling that includes more details than the summary cards.

---
title: Watchdog Insights
kind: documentation
description: View anomalies and outliers that match your search query with Watchdog Insights
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-watchdog-insights-log-management/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Augmented troubleshooting with Watchdog Insights"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/watchdog-insights-apm/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Automatically detect error and latency patterns with Watchdog Insights for APM"
---

## Overview

> Datadog Watchdog constantly runs in the background, scanning for anomalies in your organization's entire data set. As you navigate the Datadog UI, Watchdog Insights displays a filtered and sorted list of anomalies matching your active search query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog Watchdog constantly runs in the background, scanning for anomalies in your organization's entire data set. As you navigate the Datadog UI, Watchdog Insights displays a filtered and sorted-by-priority list of anomalies matching your active search query.
```

- State (ongoing versus resolved)
- Status (warning, error, or critical)
- Start time
- Anomaly type

## Navigation

{{< img src="watchdog/log_explorer_watchdog_insights.png" alt="The Watchdog Insights banner on the Logs Explorer, showing three anomalies: new error logs in the web-store service, a spike in error logs in the product-recommendation service, and another spike in error logs in the product-recommendation service" >}}

The Watchdog Insights banner sits near the top of each page. Expand the banner for an overview. The highest priority insights appear on the left. If Watchdog cannot find any issues, the banner is gray.

### Filter on Insight

To refine your current view to match a Watchdog Insight, hover over the top right corner of an insight summary card. Two icons appear. Click on the inverted triangle icon with the tooltip **Filter on Insight**. The page refreshes to show a list of entries corresponding to the insight.

### Side panel

Click **View all** to expand the panel. A side panel opens from the right, containing a vertical list of Watchdog Insights. Each entry shows a detailed view, with more information than the summary card.

> 

Reviewer: This would benefit from a "View All" side panel screenshot (eg. from Log Management): these side panels show neatly a detailed view of multiple Insights are already very actionable, even before users click on a specific Insight card

## Locations within Datadog

Four areas within Datadog feature Watchdog Insights: Infrastructure, APM, Log Management, and RUM.

### Infrastructure

Watchdog Insights appear in the Kubernetes Explorer tab in [Live Containers][1].

1. In the left navigation, hover over **Infrastructure**
2. Click **Kubernetes**
3. Select the **Explorer** tab at the top of the page
4. Choose one of the Kubernetes resource types in the **Select Resources** box
5. A list of your Kubernetes resources appears, with the Watchdog Insights panel at the top

### APM

Watchdog Insights appear on several pages within APM:
- [Trace Explorer][2]
- [Continuous Profiler][3]
- [Service Page][4]
- [Resource Page][5]

### Log Management

To locate Watchdog Insights in the Log Management UI, take the following steps:
1. In the left navigation, hover over **Logs**
2. Click **Search**

The pink Watchdog Insights banner appears in the middle of your screen, above your logs.

For more information, see [Watchdog Insights for Logs][6].

### RUM

To locate Watchdog Insights in the RUM UI, take the following steps:
1. In the left navigation, hover over **UX Monitoring**

> 2. Click **Sessions & Replays**

Reviewer: Note: Although the carousel is displayed at every level, these Insights are currently visible only when users are on the "Views" level of the RUM hierarchy so we should invite users to switch to the "Views" level..

We are working with the RUM team to improve this (either generate Insights at every level or remove the carousel for levels that do not have Insights)

---
title: Watchdog Insights
kind: documentation

> description: View anomalies and outliers that match your search query with Watchdog Insights

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: View anomalies and outliers that match your search query with Watchdog Insights.
```

> further_reading:

Reviewer 2: Add Documentation links to Watchdog Insights for Logs and RUM pages

### Side panel

Click **View all** to expand the panel. A side panel opens from the right, containing a vertical list of Watchdog Insights. Each entry shows a detailed view, with more information than the summary card.

{{< img src="watchdog/log_explorer_watchdog_insights_panel.png" alt="The Watchdog Insights side panel view within Logs Explorer. The top area shows a bar graph of error statuses over time. One Log Anomaly card is visible with the title 'New error logs were detected on service:web-store'" >}}

### Detailed view

For a detailed view of an insight, click on the individual card. The full side panel opens from the right.

{{< img src="watchdog/profiler_watchdog_insight.png" alt="A Watchdog Insights full side panel view, with the title 'Lock Pressure is high in service:product-recommendation'" >}}

To share an insight in one click, click the **Copy Link** button on the full side panel. Your clipboard populates with the query that produced the insight.

## Locations within Datadog

> Four areas within Datadog feature Watchdog Insights: Infrastructure, APM, Log Management, and RUM.

Reviewer 2: Can we add the in-app links for these areas? 
https://app.datadoghq.com/apm/home
https://app.datadoghq.com/orchestration/overview/pod
https://app.datadoghq.com/logs, https://app.datadoghq.com/rum/explorer
```suggestion
You can find Watchdog Insights in four product areas: Infrastructure, APM, Log Management, and RUM.
```

### Infrastructure

Watchdog Insights appear in the Kubernetes Explorer tab in [Live Containers][1].

> 1. In the left navigation, hover over **Infrastructure**

Reviewer 2: periods

2. Click **Kubernetes**
3. Select the **Explorer** tab at the top of the page
4. Choose one of the Kubernetes resource types in the **Select Resources** box
5. A list of your Kubernetes resources appears, with the Watchdog Insights panel at the top

### APM

Watchdog Insights appear on several pages within APM:
- [Trace Explorer][2]
- [Continuous Profiler][3]
- [Service Page][4]
- [Resource Page][5]

### Log Management

To locate Watchdog Insights in the Log Management UI, take the following steps:
1. In the left navigation, hover over **Logs**
2. Click **Search**

The pink Watchdog Insights banner appears in the middle of your screen, above your logs.

For more information, see [Watchdog Insights for Logs][6].

### RUM

To locate Watchdog Insights in the RUM UI, take the following steps:
1. In the left navigation, hover over **UX Monitoring**
2. Click **Sessions & Replays**
3. At the top of the page, the **In** drop-down shows that you are in the **Sessions** level. Change the drop-down to **Views**.

> The pink Watchdog Insights banner appears in the middle of your screen, above your sessions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The pink Watchdog Insights banner appears in the middle of your screen, above your views.
```

---
title: Watchdog Insights
kind: documentation
description: View anomalies and outliers in context with Watchdog Insights
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-watchdog-insights-log-management/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Augmented troubleshooting with Watchdog Insights"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/watchdog-insights-apm/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Automatically detect error and latency patterns with Watchdog Insights for APM"
---

## Overview

Watchdog Insights inform you of anomalies and error outliers that relate to your current view, including any facets or search terms. During an incident, use Watchdog Insights to focus on the highest priority data and speed up investigation.

Each Insight highlights one outlier or anomaly affecting a subset of users. Depending on the product area, Watchdog Insights can detect different types of anomalies.

## Locations within Datadog

> Three areas within Datadog feature Watchdog Insights: Log Management, RUM, and APM.

Reviewer 3: Should we add Profiling to this, as it's in public beta? Containers is also on for 30% of customers so far. cc @samirbrizini

Author: @brimtown Profiling is part of APM. In the APM subsection, I said that Insights are available in Continuous Profiler. I used that name because the blog post also calls it Continuous Profiler: https://app.datadoghq.com/release-notes/detect-common-bottlenecks-and-the-underlying-code-that-causes-them-with-watchdog-insights-in-continuous-profiler. Is there a better name I should use?

Reviewer 3: Ah nope, that makes sense to me!

### Log Management

In the Log Explorer, Watchdog Insights finds two types of insights:
- [Log Anomaly Detection][1]
- [Error Outliers][2]

To locate Watchdog Insights in the Log Management UI, take the following steps:
1. In the left navigation, hover over **Logs**
2. Click **Search**

The pink Watchdog Insights banner appears in the middle of your screen, above your logs. If Watchdog cannot find any issues, the banner is gray.

For more information, see [Watchdog Insights for Logs][3].

### RUM

In the RUM explorer, Watchdog Insights finds two types of insights:
- [Error Outliers][4]
- [Latency Outliers][5]

To locate Watchdog Insights in the RUM UI, take the following steps:
1. In the left navigation, hover over **UX Monitoring**
2. Click **Sessions & Replays**

The pink Watchdog Insights banner appears in the middle of your screen, above your sessions. If Watchdog cannot find any issues, the banner is gray.

For more information, see [Watchdog Insights for RUM][6].

### APM

Watchdog Insights appear on several pages within APM:
- [Trace Explorer][7]
- [Continuous Profiler][8]

> - Service Catalog (beta)

Author: @samirbrizini, when I go to the Service Catalog (https://app.datadoghq.com/services) in the demo org, I don't see a Watchdog Insights bar. Is it supposed to be there?
